# Real-Time-Object-Detection-in-Tensorflow
Attempt to identify using pre trained models of Tensorflow. Learnings thorugh this: open cv, tensorflow, object detection
This Taught me Basics of Object Detection with Tensorflow. 

why tensorflow? 

Creating accurate Machine Learning Models which are capable of identifying and localizing multiple objects in a single image remained a core challenge in computer vision. But, with recent advancements in Deep Learning, Object Detection applications are easier to develop than ever before. TensorFlow’s Object Detection API is an open source framework built on top of TensorFlow that makes it easy to construct, train and deploy object detection models.

Things I learned through my research and tutorial

1. What is Object Detection
2. Different Applications of Object Detection
3. Object Detection Workflow
4. What is Tensorflow
5. Object Detection with Tensorflow 
6. Real-Time/Live Object Detection 

Object Detection can be done via multiple ways:

Feature-Based Object Detection
Viola Jones Object Detection
SVM Classifications with HOG Features
Deep Learning Object Detection

In this Object Detection Attemp as a part of assignment, mainly focuses on Deep Learning Object Detection as Tensorflow uses Deep Learning for computation.

Applications Of Object Detection:
1. Facial Recognition
2. People Counting
3. Industrial Quality Check
4. Self Driving Cars
5. Security

######Object Detection Workflow
Every Object Detection Algorithm has a different way of working, but they all work on the same principle.

Feature Extraction: They extract features from the input images at hands and use these features to determine the class of the image. Be it through MatLab, Open CV, Viola Jones or Deep Learning.

What is TensorFlow?
Tensorflow is Google’s Open Source Machine Learning Framework for dataflow programming across a range of tasks. Nodes in the graph represent mathematical operations, while the graph edges represent the multi-dimensional data arrays (tensors) communicated between them.

Tensors are just multidimensional arrays, an extension of 2-dimensional tables to data with a higher dimension. There are many features of Tensorflow which makes it appropriate for Deep Learning. So, without wasting any time, let’s see how we can implement Object Detection using Tensorflow.

Now to Download TensorFlow and TensorFlow GPU you can use pip or conda commands:
# For CPU
pip install tensorflow
# For GPU
pip install tensorflow-gpu


For all the other libraries we can use pip or conda to install them. The code is provided below:
ip install --user Cython
pip install --user contextlib2
pip install --user pillow
pip install --user lxml
pip install --user jupyter
pip install --user matplotlib

Next, : Protocol Buffers (Protobuf)  are Google’s language-neutral, platform-neutral, extensible mechanism for serializing structured data, – think of it like XML, but smaller, faster, and simpler. You need to Download Protobuf version 3.4 or above for this demo and extract it.
Now you need to Clone or Download TensorFlow’s Model from Github. Once downloaded and extracted rename the “models-masters” to just “models“.
Now for simplicity, we are going to keep “models” and “protobuf” under one folder “Tensorflow“.
Next, we need to go inside the Tensorflow folder and then inside research folder and run protobuf from there using this command:
"path_of_protobuf's bin"./bin/protoc object_detection/protos/
To check whether this worked or not, you can go to the protos folder inside models>object_detection>protos and there you can see that for every proto file there’s one python file created.

After the environment is set up, you need to go to the “object_detection” directory and then create a new python file. You can use Spyder or Jupyter to write your code.

COCO stands for Common Objects in Context, this dataset contains around 330K labeled images. Now the model selection is important as you need to make an important tradeoff between Speed and Accuracy. Depending upon your requirement and the system memory, the correct model must be selected.


Main Code Steps:
1. First of all, we need to import all the libraries
2. Download the model which is trained on the COCO dataset.
3. Provide the required model and the frozen inference graph generated by Tensorflow to use.
4. Code will download that model from the internet and extract the frozen inference graph of that model.
5. Load all the labels
6. Define path to the images for the testing purpose
7. use OpenCV and the camera Module to use the live feed of the webcam to detect objects.
8. OpenCV will take care of  load the images from the directory and convert it to numPy array
9. Instead of matplotlib for final image show instead, we will use OpenCV for that as well
10. code will use OpenCV that will, in turn, use the camera object initialized earlier to open a new window named “Object_Detection” of the size “800×600”. It will wait for 25 milliseconds for the camera to show images otherwise, it will close the window.
